# C S 324E Group 13

Assignment 6: Simulation

In this project, we implemented a simulation that fully replicates a gravity-based
particle system. When the simulation begins, 10 randomly generated particles are 
created at the top of the screen, and fall according to the laws of physics. Three
generic platform obstacles are spawned, and the particles can collide and interact
with said platforms. Users can introduce individual, smaller obstacles by clicking
on the screen, and can reset the simulation by pressing 'R.'

Classes:
- Main: Contains primary functionality for the simulation (setup, draw, etc.).
- Ball: Class for each of the individual simulated particles. Includes movement
(force, acceleration, propagation, etc.) and collision (other particles, obstacles)
functionalities.
- Obstacle: Class for the individual platforms/obstacles the balls can collide with
and that users can introduce to the simulation.

In terms of forces, the ones that apply to our simulation are:
- Gravity: Each particle is pulled down towards the bottom of the screen.
- Restitution: Each collision between particles and obstacles loses energy.
- Friction: As each particle rolls/moves along a surface, it loses energy as well.

Throughout the development process, we realized that several feature were infeasible
given the time frame of our assignment. A considerable portion of our time was 
dedicated to perfecting the collisions between each of the objects in our simulation.
We focused mainly on ensuring that particle-obstacle collisions worked for purely
rectangular platforms, and that particle-particle collisions functioned mathematically.
As such, we were unable to include some of the more elaborate designs that we laid out
in our progress report (moving elevator, diagonal platforms, etc.).

Challenges:
- Ball behavior when resting at bottom of screen (oscillations).
- Vector math for circular collisions.

Group Responsibilities:
- Albert and Amar worked on the ball and platform classes, and the framework for the 
scene as a whole.
- Alex polished up the ball class and focused primarily on ensuring the vector math
and physics worked out as intended. He also finalized and integrated the group's 
work.